## Prompt

> Include familiarity with MPI, OpenMP, multi-core, accelerators and co-processors, application packages, etc. Minimum of 250 words; maximum of 400 words.

## My response

I am a Ph.D. student in Bioinformatics and Computational Biology, and have had substantial training in computer science at both the undergraduate and graduate levels. The nature of my research requires that I use HPC resources on a daily basis, which has provided me considerable experience with different job scheduling & resource management systems, with parallel software applications commonly-used in my field (genomics), and with parallel programming.

While my primary interests as a research scientist are in genome biology, the data-intensive nature of this field has made it increasingly challenging to answer basic research questions without considerable computer science training. My experience with data structures, algorithms, and statistics influences every aspect of my work, the majority of which is spent executing open-source genome analysis software packages, interpreting the results of these packages, and engineering my own software to fully investigate my research questions.

My initial exposure to cluster computing and supercomputing resources came as an undergraduate, first as an intern at an NSF REU in fungal genomics and computational biology, and then later as an undergraduate research assistant. Now as a graduate student, I utilize HPC resources for my research on a weekly basis. These resources include large memory and distributed computing environments provided by my lab (Brendel Group), by my university (Indiana University), and by our national science cyberinfrastructure (iPlant / XSEDE).

My graduate training has included coursework in parallel programming, which focused predominantly on distributed-memory programming (with MPI), but also included brief coverage of shared-memory parallel programming (with OpenMP) and hybrid approaches. Assignments associated with this coursework initially involved writing code in Fortran and C to perform various mathematical calculations with general applications to science and engineering. Later on I was given flexibility to work on research problems of my own interest. Parallel software applications I have written include an MPI-based implementation of the Jensen-Shannon entropic divergence algorithm for identifying genomic isochores, as well as an OpenMP-based software package for comparing two alternative gene structure annotations for the same genomic sequence. A paper describing the latter (ParsEval) has been published in the journal BMC Bioinformatics.
